README.md, before:

This repo is for review of requests for signing shim.  To create a request for review:

- clone this repo
- edit the template below
- add the shim.efi to be signed
- add build logs
- add any additional binaries/certificates/SHA256 hashes that may be needed
- commit all of that
- tag it with a tag of the form "myorg-shim-arch-YYYYMMDD"
- push that to github
- file an issue at https://github.com/rhboot/shim-review/issues with a link to your tag
- approval is ready when the "accepted" label is added to your issue

Note that we really only have experience with using GRUB2 on Linux, so asking
us to endorse anything else for signing is going to require some convincing on
your part.

Here's the template:

*******************************************************************************
### What organization or people are asking to have this signed?
*******************************************************************************
10ZiG Technology
http://www.10zig.com

*******************************************************************************
### What product or service is this for?
*******************************************************************************
10ZiG Technology supply Thin Client Hardware and Linux and Windows Based operating systems designed to support VDI (Virtual Desktop Infrastructure), DaaS (Desktop as a Service), SaaS (Software as a Service) Web based Apps for providing user’s with Virtual/Remote Workspace solutions.  10ZiG hardware is based on Intel/AMD x86 platform and features InsydeH20 UEFI BIOS, supportive of UEFI Secure Boot feature.  10ZiG’s Linux based Operating System which is based on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS, requires support of UEFI Secure Boot in order that we can support the latest generation of Intel/AMD based hardware featuring UEFI Secure Boot.

Support of UEFI Secure Boot is required firstly in order to support operating on 10ZiG Hardware where UEFI Secure Boot is enabled.  Secondly for 10ZiG customer’s who run 10ZiG’s Linux based Operating System on 3rd party Hardware (Dell/HP/Lenovo/etc) such as Desktop PC’s and Laptops where UEFI Secure Boot is enabled by default and/or exclusively.  

10ZiG Customer’s operate in various sectors including, but not limited to Government, Federal, Military, Education, Finance, Legal and Healthcare.  10ZiG customer’s leverage 10ZiG Hardware and/or Software in the form of our Linux or Windows based operating system to provide user’s with secure access to VDI, DaaS and Saas Workspace based products from vendors including Citrix, VMware, Microsoft amongst others.  

The Linux and Windows based operating system is managed and secured via 10ZiG’s centralized management software, 10ZiG Manager.  Whilst the 10ZiG supplied Microsoft Windows version (Windows 10 IoT LTSC 2021) supports UEFI Secure Boot natively, the 10ZiG Linux based Operating System does not and and hence requires this service in order to support UEFI Secure Boot.

More information on our products and services can be found at 10ZiG.com

*******************************************************************************
### What's the justification that this really does need to be signed for the whole world to be able to boot it?
*******************************************************************************
As UEFI Secure Boot is now considered an optional and more recently mandatory feature of hardware, it is critical for 10ZiG’s Linux Based Operating System be supportive of UEFI Secure Boot in order that our Operating System can support Hardware which is UEFI Secure Boot enabled.  This provides customer’s with a Secure Operating System for accessing VDI, DaaS and SaaS Workspace based solutions.

*******************************************************************************
### Why are you unable to reuse shim from another distro that is already signed?
*******************************************************************************
The linux kernel and the modules needs to be customized to support customer's peripherals and needs. Currently no known Linux distro with Secure Boot is shipping a suitable kernel, so we need to compile our own.

*******************************************************************************
### Who is the primary contact for security updates, etc.?
The security contacts need to be verified before the shim can be accepted. For subsequent requests, contact verification is only necessary if the security contacts or their PGP keys have changed since the last successful verification.

An authorized reviewer will initiate contact verification by sending each security contact a PGP-encrypted email containing random words.
You will be asked to post the contents of these mails in your `shim-review` issue to prove ownership of the email addresses and PGP keys.
*******************************************************************************
- Name: Claudio Granatiero
- Position: Secure Boot developer
- Email address: claudiog@10zig.com
- PGP key fingerprint: 3D55 F119 4312 70B3 8CEF  C20D 13E4 F603 28E9 4C15

(Key should be signed by the other security contacts, pushed to a keyserver
like keyserver.ubuntu.com, and preferably have signatures that are reasonably
well known in the Linux community.)

*******************************************************************************
### Who is the secondary contact for security updates, etc.?
*******************************************************************************
- Name: Kevin Greenway
- Position: Chief Technology Officer
- Email address: keving@10zig.com
- PGP key fingerprint: 95F5 4629 840E 3526 DCD0  68D4 5089 0A18 6CB4 EA18

(Key should be signed by the other security contacts, pushed to a keyserver
like keyserver.ubuntu.com, and preferably have signatures that are reasonably
well known in the Linux community.)

*******************************************************************************
### Were these binaries created from the 15.7 shim release tar?
Please create your shim binaries starting with the 15.7 shim release tar file: https://github.com/rhboot/shim/releases/download/15.7/shim-15.7.tar.bz2

This matches https://github.com/rhboot/shim/releases/tag/15.7 and contains the appropriate gnu-efi source.

*******************************************************************************
Yes.

*******************************************************************************
### URL for a repo that contains the exact code which was built to get this binary:
*******************************************************************************
https://github.com/ClaudioGranatiero-10zig/shim-review/blob/main/shim-15.7.tar.bz2

*******************************************************************************
### What patches are being applied and why:
*******************************************************************************
- Make sbat_var.S parse right with buggy gcc/binutils #535
- Add validation function for Microsoft signing #531
- Enable the NX compatibility flag by default. #530

*******************************************************************************
### If shim is loading GRUB2 bootloader what exact implementation of Secureboot in GRUB2 do you have? (Either Upstream GRUB2 shim_lock verifier or Downstream RHEL/Fedora/Debian/Canonical-like implementation)
*******************************************************************************
Downstream RHEL/Fedora/Debian/Canonical-like implementation

*******************************************************************************
### If shim is loading GRUB2 bootloader and your previously released shim booted a version of grub affected by any of the CVEs in the July 2020 grub2 CVE list, the March 2021 grub2 CVE list, the June 7th 2022 grub2 CVE list, or the November 15th 2022 list, have fixes for all these CVEs been applied?

* CVE-2020-14372
* CVE-2020-25632
* CVE-2020-25647
* CVE-2020-27749
* CVE-2020-27779
* CVE-2021-20225
* CVE-2021-20233
* CVE-2020-10713
* CVE-2020-14308
* CVE-2020-14309
* CVE-2020-14310
* CVE-2020-14311
* CVE-2020-15705
* CVE-2021-3418 (if you are shipping the shim_lock module)

* CVE-2021-3695
* CVE-2021-3696
* CVE-2021-3697
* CVE-2022-28733
* CVE-2022-28734
* CVE-2022-28735
* CVE-2022-28736
* CVE-2022-28737

* CVE-2022-2601
* CVE-2022-3775
*******************************************************************************
Yes, we are using Debian's GRUB 2.06-8 extracted from Debian Bookworm, which fixes all those CVE.

*******************************************************************************
### If these fixes have been applied, have you set the global SBAT generation on your GRUB binary to 3?
*******************************************************************************
Yes

*******************************************************************************
### Were old shims hashes provided to Microsoft for verification and to be added to future DBX updates?
### Does your new chain of trust disallow booting old GRUB2 builds affected by the CVEs?
*******************************************************************************
This is our first shim submission.

*******************************************************************************
### If your boot chain of trust includes a Linux kernel:
### Is upstream commit [1957a85b0032a81e6482ca4aab883643b8dae06e "efi: Restrict efivar_ssdt_load when the kernel is locked down"](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/commit/?id=1957a85b0032a81e6482ca4aab883643b8dae06e) applied?
### Is upstream commit [75b0cea7bf307f362057cc778efe89af4c615354 "ACPI: configfs: Disallow loading ACPI tables when locked down"](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/commit/?id=75b0cea7bf307f362057cc778efe89af4c615354) applied?
### Is upstream commit [eadb2f47a3ced5c64b23b90fd2a3463f63726066 "lockdown: also lock down previous kgdb use"](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/commit/?id=eadb2f47a3ced5c64b23b90fd2a3463f63726066) applied?
*******************************************************************************
Yes

*******************************************************************************
### Do you build your signed kernel with additional local patches? What do they do?
*******************************************************************************
Yes, we have:
- support for a specific type of EMMC present in our hardware
- 10ZiG Boot Logo
- lockdown: also lock down previous kgdb use (eadb2f47a3ced5c64b23b90fd2a3463f63726066)

*******************************************************************************
### If you use vendor_db functionality of providing multiple certificates and/or hashes please briefly describe your certificate setup.
### If there are allow-listed hashes please provide exact binaries for which hashes are created via file sharing service, available in public with anonymous access for verification.
*******************************************************************************
We don't use the vendor_db functionality.

*******************************************************************************
### If you are re-using a previously used (CA) certificate, you will need to add the hashes of the previous GRUB2 binaries exposed to the CVEs to vendor_dbx in shim in order to prevent GRUB2 from being able to chainload those older GRUB2 binaries. If you are changing to a new (CA) certificate, this does not apply.
### Please describe your strategy.
*******************************************************************************
This is our first shim submission, so we have no previously used certificate.

*******************************************************************************
### What OS and toolchain must we use to reproduce this build?  Include where to find it, etc.  We're going to try to reproduce your build as closely as possible to verify that it's really a build of the source tree you tell us it is, so these need to be fairly thorough. At the very least include the specific versions of gcc, binutils, and gnu-efi which were used, and where to find those binaries.
### If the shim binaries can't be reproduced using the provided Dockerfile, please explain why that's the case and what the differences would be.
*******************************************************************************
see Dockerfile

*******************************************************************************
### Which files in this repo are the logs for your build?
This should include logs for creating the buildroots, applying patches, doing the build, creating the archives, etc.
*******************************************************************************
'build.log' is a log file for our build.

It was produced with command: docker build --no-cache --tag=shim . &>  build.log

*******************************************************************************
### What changes were made since your SHIM was last signed?
*******************************************************************************
None, that's our first submission.

*******************************************************************************
### What is the SHA256 hash of your final SHIM binary?
*******************************************************************************
6236686fd6d099fdbbb78024829f7818d79fa7ef8b84478da5946096ccd13373

*******************************************************************************
### How do you manage and protect the keys used in your SHIM?
*******************************************************************************
The key is stored on a FIPS-140-2 USB token (YubiKey), connected to the build machine, and only the authorized persons know the password.
*******************************************************************************
### Do you use EV certificates as embedded certificates in the SHIM?
*******************************************************************************
No.

*******************************************************************************
### Do you add a vendor-specific SBAT entry to the SBAT section in each binary that supports SBAT metadata ( grub2, fwupd, fwupdate, shim + all child shim binaries )?
### Please provide exact SBAT entries for all SBAT binaries you are booting or planning to boot directly through shim.
### Where your code is only slightly modified from an upstream vendor's, please also preserve their SBAT entries to simplify revocation.
*******************************************************************************
shim.10zig,1,10ZiG Technology,shim,15.7,mail:secureboot@10zig.com

*******************************************************************************
### Which modules are built into your signed grub image?
*******************************************************************************
We took the binaries from debian bookworm, no external modules.

*******************************************************************************
### What is the origin and full version number of your bootloader (GRUB or other)?
*******************************************************************************
GRUB 2.06-8 from Debian Bookworm
*******************************************************************************
### If your SHIM launches any other components, please provide further details on what is launched.
*******************************************************************************
Shim launches only GRUB, no other components.
*******************************************************************************
### If your GRUB2 launches any other binaries that are not the Linux kernel in SecureBoot mode, please provide further details on what is launched and how it enforces Secureboot lockdown.
*******************************************************************************
GRUB will launch only linux kernel, no other components.


*******************************************************************************
### How do the launched components prevent execution of unauthenticated code?
*******************************************************************************
shim verifies signature of GRUB, GRUB verifies signature of kernel, kernel is compiled with LOCK_DOWN_KERNEL_FORCE_INTEGRITY, all kernel modules are signed.

*******************************************************************************
### Does your SHIM load any loaders that support loading unsigned kernels (e.g. GRUB)?
*******************************************************************************
No.

*******************************************************************************
### What kernel are you using? Which patches does it includes to enforce Secure Boot?
*******************************************************************************
linux 5.15.39 with lockdown forced.

*******************************************************************************
### Add any additional information you think we may need to validate this shim.
*******************************************************************************
[your text here]

Commit message:

added "force NX_COMPAT" in kernel patches 	modified:   README.md

README.md, after:

This repo is for review of requests for signing shim.  To create a request for review:

- clone this repo
- edit the template below
- add the shim.efi to be signed
- add build logs
- add any additional binaries/certificates/SHA256 hashes that may be needed
- commit all of that
- tag it with a tag of the form "myorg-shim-arch-YYYYMMDD"
- push that to github
- file an issue at https://github.com/rhboot/shim-review/issues with a link to your tag
- approval is ready when the "accepted" label is added to your issue

Note that we really only have experience with using GRUB2 on Linux, so asking
us to endorse anything else for signing is going to require some convincing on
your part.

Here's the template:

*******************************************************************************
### What organization or people are asking to have this signed?
*******************************************************************************
10ZiG Technology
http://www.10zig.com

*******************************************************************************
### What product or service is this for?
*******************************************************************************
10ZiG Technology supply Thin Client Hardware and Linux and Windows Based operating systems designed to support VDI (Virtual Desktop Infrastructure), DaaS (Desktop as a Service), SaaS (Software as a Service) Web based Apps for providing user’s with Virtual/Remote Workspace solutions.  10ZiG hardware is based on Intel/AMD x86 platform and features InsydeH20 UEFI BIOS, supportive of UEFI Secure Boot feature.  10ZiG’s Linux based Operating System which is based on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS, requires support of UEFI Secure Boot in order that we can support the latest generation of Intel/AMD based hardware featuring UEFI Secure Boot.

Support of UEFI Secure Boot is required firstly in order to support operating on 10ZiG Hardware where UEFI Secure Boot is enabled.  Secondly for 10ZiG customer’s who run 10ZiG’s Linux based Operating System on 3rd party Hardware (Dell/HP/Lenovo/etc) such as Desktop PC’s and Laptops where UEFI Secure Boot is enabled by default and/or exclusively.  

10ZiG Customer’s operate in various sectors including, but not limited to Government, Federal, Military, Education, Finance, Legal and Healthcare.  10ZiG customer’s leverage 10ZiG Hardware and/or Software in the form of our Linux or Windows based operating system to provide user’s with secure access to VDI, DaaS and Saas Workspace based products from vendors including Citrix, VMware, Microsoft amongst others.  

The Linux and Windows based operating system is managed and secured via 10ZiG’s centralized management software, 10ZiG Manager.  Whilst the 10ZiG supplied Microsoft Windows version (Windows 10 IoT LTSC 2021) supports UEFI Secure Boot natively, the 10ZiG Linux based Operating System does not and and hence requires this service in order to support UEFI Secure Boot.

More information on our products and services can be found at 10ZiG.com

*******************************************************************************
### What's the justification that this really does need to be signed for the whole world to be able to boot it?
*******************************************************************************
As UEFI Secure Boot is now considered an optional and more recently mandatory feature of hardware, it is critical for 10ZiG’s Linux Based Operating System be supportive of UEFI Secure Boot in order that our Operating System can support Hardware which is UEFI Secure Boot enabled.  This provides customer’s with a Secure Operating System for accessing VDI, DaaS and SaaS Workspace based solutions.

*******************************************************************************
### Why are you unable to reuse shim from another distro that is already signed?
*******************************************************************************
The linux kernel and the modules needs to be customized to support customer's peripherals and needs. Currently no known Linux distro with Secure Boot is shipping a suitable kernel, so we need to compile our own.

*******************************************************************************
### Who is the primary contact for security updates, etc.?
The security contacts need to be verified before the shim can be accepted. For subsequent requests, contact verification is only necessary if the security contacts or their PGP keys have changed since the last successful verification.

An authorized reviewer will initiate contact verification by sending each security contact a PGP-encrypted email containing random words.
You will be asked to post the contents of these mails in your `shim-review` issue to prove ownership of the email addresses and PGP keys.
*******************************************************************************
- Name: Claudio Granatiero
- Position: Secure Boot developer
- Email address: claudiog@10zig.com
- PGP key fingerprint: 3D55 F119 4312 70B3 8CEF  C20D 13E4 F603 28E9 4C15

(Key should be signed by the other security contacts, pushed to a keyserver
like keyserver.ubuntu.com, and preferably have signatures that are reasonably
well known in the Linux community.)

*******************************************************************************
### Who is the secondary contact for security updates, etc.?
*******************************************************************************
- Name: Kevin Greenway
- Position: Chief Technology Officer
- Email address: keving@10zig.com
- PGP key fingerprint: 95F5 4629 840E 3526 DCD0  68D4 5089 0A18 6CB4 EA18

(Key should be signed by the other security contacts, pushed to a keyserver
like keyserver.ubuntu.com, and preferably have signatures that are reasonably
well known in the Linux community.)

*******************************************************************************
### Were these binaries created from the 15.7 shim release tar?
Please create your shim binaries starting with the 15.7 shim release tar file: https://github.com/rhboot/shim/releases/download/15.7/shim-15.7.tar.bz2

This matches https://github.com/rhboot/shim/releases/tag/15.7 and contains the appropriate gnu-efi source.

*******************************************************************************
Yes.

*******************************************************************************
### URL for a repo that contains the exact code which was built to get this binary:
*******************************************************************************
https://github.com/ClaudioGranatiero-10zig/shim-review/blob/main/shim-15.7.tar.bz2

*******************************************************************************
### What patches are being applied and why:
*******************************************************************************
- Make sbat_var.S parse right with buggy gcc/binutils #535
- Add validation function for Microsoft signing #531
- Enable the NX compatibility flag by default. #530

*******************************************************************************
### If shim is loading GRUB2 bootloader what exact implementation of Secureboot in GRUB2 do you have? (Either Upstream GRUB2 shim_lock verifier or Downstream RHEL/Fedora/Debian/Canonical-like implementation)
*******************************************************************************
Downstream RHEL/Fedora/Debian/Canonical-like implementation

*******************************************************************************
### If shim is loading GRUB2 bootloader and your previously released shim booted a version of grub affected by any of the CVEs in the July 2020 grub2 CVE list, the March 2021 grub2 CVE list, the June 7th 2022 grub2 CVE list, or the November 15th 2022 list, have fixes for all these CVEs been applied?

* CVE-2020-14372
* CVE-2020-25632
* CVE-2020-25647
* CVE-2020-27749
* CVE-2020-27779
* CVE-2021-20225
* CVE-2021-20233
* CVE-2020-10713
* CVE-2020-14308
* CVE-2020-14309
* CVE-2020-14310
* CVE-2020-14311
* CVE-2020-15705
* CVE-2021-3418 (if you are shipping the shim_lock module)

* CVE-2021-3695
* CVE-2021-3696
* CVE-2021-3697
* CVE-2022-28733
* CVE-2022-28734
* CVE-2022-28735
* CVE-2022-28736
* CVE-2022-28737

* CVE-2022-2601
* CVE-2022-3775
*******************************************************************************
Yes, we are using Debian's GRUB 2.06-8 extracted from Debian Bookworm, which fixes all those CVE.

*******************************************************************************
### If these fixes have been applied, have you set the global SBAT generation on your GRUB binary to 3?
*******************************************************************************
Yes

*******************************************************************************
### Were old shims hashes provided to Microsoft for verification and to be added to future DBX updates?
### Does your new chain of trust disallow booting old GRUB2 builds affected by the CVEs?
*******************************************************************************
This is our first shim submission.

*******************************************************************************
### If your boot chain of trust includes a Linux kernel:
### Is upstream commit [1957a85b0032a81e6482ca4aab883643b8dae06e "efi: Restrict efivar_ssdt_load when the kernel is locked down"](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/commit/?id=1957a85b0032a81e6482ca4aab883643b8dae06e) applied?
### Is upstream commit [75b0cea7bf307f362057cc778efe89af4c615354 "ACPI: configfs: Disallow loading ACPI tables when locked down"](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/commit/?id=75b0cea7bf307f362057cc778efe89af4c615354) applied?
### Is upstream commit [eadb2f47a3ced5c64b23b90fd2a3463f63726066 "lockdown: also lock down previous kgdb use"](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/commit/?id=eadb2f47a3ced5c64b23b90fd2a3463f63726066) applied?
*******************************************************************************
Yes

*******************************************************************************
### Do you build your signed kernel with additional local patches? What do they do?
*******************************************************************************
Yes, we have:
- support for a specific type of EMMC present in our hardware
- 10ZiG Boot Logo
- lockdown: also lock down previous kgdb use (eadb2f47a3ced5c64b23b90fd2a3463f63726066)
- force NX_COMPAT (changed DllCharacteristcs from 0 to IMAGE_DLL_CHARACTERISTICS_NX_COMPAT in arch/x86/boot/header.S)

*******************************************************************************
### If you use vendor_db functionality of providing multiple certificates and/or hashes please briefly describe your certificate setup.
### If there are allow-listed hashes please provide exact binaries for which hashes are created via file sharing service, available in public with anonymous access for verification.
*******************************************************************************
We don't use the vendor_db functionality.

*******************************************************************************
### If you are re-using a previously used (CA) certificate, you will need to add the hashes of the previous GRUB2 binaries exposed to the CVEs to vendor_dbx in shim in order to prevent GRUB2 from being able to chainload those older GRUB2 binaries. If you are changing to a new (CA) certificate, this does not apply.
### Please describe your strategy.
*******************************************************************************
This is our first shim submission, so we have no previously used certificate.

*******************************************************************************
### What OS and toolchain must we use to reproduce this build?  Include where to find it, etc.  We're going to try to reproduce your build as closely as possible to verify that it's really a build of the source tree you tell us it is, so these need to be fairly thorough. At the very least include the specific versions of gcc, binutils, and gnu-efi which were used, and where to find those binaries.
### If the shim binaries can't be reproduced using the provided Dockerfile, please explain why that's the case and what the differences would be.
*******************************************************************************
see Dockerfile

*******************************************************************************
### Which files in this repo are the logs for your build?
This should include logs for creating the buildroots, applying patches, doing the build, creating the archives, etc.
*******************************************************************************
'build.log' is a log file for our build.

It was produced with command: docker build --no-cache --tag=shim . &>  build.log

*******************************************************************************
### What changes were made since your SHIM was last signed?
*******************************************************************************
None, that's our first submission.

*******************************************************************************
### What is the SHA256 hash of your final SHIM binary?
*******************************************************************************
6236686fd6d099fdbbb78024829f7818d79fa7ef8b84478da5946096ccd13373

*******************************************************************************
### How do you manage and protect the keys used in your SHIM?
*******************************************************************************
The key is stored on a FIPS-140-2 USB token (YubiKey), connected to the build machine, and only the authorized persons know the password.
*******************************************************************************
### Do you use EV certificates as embedded certificates in the SHIM?
*******************************************************************************
No.

*******************************************************************************
### Do you add a vendor-specific SBAT entry to the SBAT section in each binary that supports SBAT metadata ( grub2, fwupd, fwupdate, shim + all child shim binaries )?
### Please provide exact SBAT entries for all SBAT binaries you are booting or planning to boot directly through shim.
### Where your code is only slightly modified from an upstream vendor's, please also preserve their SBAT entries to simplify revocation.
*******************************************************************************
shim.10zig,1,10ZiG Technology,shim,15.7,mail:secureboot@10zig.com

*******************************************************************************
### Which modules are built into your signed grub image?
*******************************************************************************
We took the binaries from debian bookworm, no external modules.

*******************************************************************************
### What is the origin and full version number of your bootloader (GRUB or other)?
*******************************************************************************
GRUB 2.06-8 from Debian Bookworm
*******************************************************************************
### If your SHIM launches any other components, please provide further details on what is launched.
*******************************************************************************
Shim launches only GRUB, no other components.
*******************************************************************************
### If your GRUB2 launches any other binaries that are not the Linux kernel in SecureBoot mode, please provide further details on what is launched and how it enforces Secureboot lockdown.
*******************************************************************************
GRUB will launch only linux kernel, no other components.


*******************************************************************************
### How do the launched components prevent execution of unauthenticated code?
*******************************************************************************
shim verifies signature of GRUB, GRUB verifies signature of kernel, kernel is compiled with LOCK_DOWN_KERNEL_FORCE_INTEGRITY, all kernel modules are signed.

*******************************************************************************
### Does your SHIM load any loaders that support loading unsigned kernels (e.g. GRUB)?
*******************************************************************************
No.

*******************************************************************************
### What kernel are you using? Which patches does it includes to enforce Secure Boot?
*******************************************************************************
linux 5.15.39 with lockdown forced.

*******************************************************************************
### Add any additional information you think we may need to validate this shim.
*******************************************************************************
[your text here]
